<html 	xmlns="http://www.w3c.org/xhtml"
		xmlns:ui="http://java.sun.com/jsf/facelets"
		xmlns:h="http://java.sun.com/jsf/html"
		xmlns:f="http://java.sun.com/jsf/core">
<head>
	<meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
</head>
<body>
	<ui:composition template="/WEB-INF/template/template.xhtml">
		<ui:define name="title">Facelets</ui:define>
		<ui:define name="content">
			<p>In <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computing" title="Computing">computing</a>, <b>Facelets</b> is an 
			<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open_source" title="Open source">open source</a> 
			<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_template_system" title="Web template system">Web template system</a> 
			under the <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apache_license" title="Apache license" class="mw-redirect">Apache license</a> 
			and the default view handler technology (aka view declaration language) for 
			<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JavaServer_Faces" title="JavaServer Faces">JavaServer Faces</a> (JSF). 
			The language requires valid input <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/XML" title="XML">XML</a> documents to work. 
			Facelets supports all of the <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JavaServer_Faces" title="JavaServer Faces">JSF</a> 
			UI components and focuses completely on building the JSF component tree, reflecting the 
			<b>view</b> for a JSF application.</p>
			<p>Although both <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JavaServer_Pages" title="JavaServer Pages">JSP</a> and 
			<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JavaServer_Faces" title="JavaServer Faces">JSF</a> technologies have been 
			improved to work better together, Facelets eliminates the issues noted in 
			<a href="/w/index.php?title=Hans_Bergsten&amp;action=edit&amp;redlink=1" class="new" title="Hans Bergsten (page does not exist)">
			Hans Bergsten</a>'s article "Improving JSF by Dumping JSP"<sup id="cite_ref-0" class="reference"><a href="#cite_note-0"><span>[</span>1<span>]</span></a></sup></p>
			<p>Facelets draws on some of the ideas from 
			<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apache_Tapestry" title="Apache Tapestry">Apache Tapestry</a>, 
			and is similar enough to draw comparison. The project is conceptually similar to Tapestry's, 
			which converts HTML elements into the corresponding framework components. Facelets also has 
			some similarities to the 
			<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Java:_View_Technologies_and_Frameworks#Tiles" title="Java: View Technologies and Frameworks">
			Tiles</a> framework with respect to support templating as well as composition.</p>
			<p>Initially, Facelets was available as a separate, alternative view declaration language for JSF 1.1 and 
			JSF 1.2 which both used JSP as the default view declaration language. Starting from JSF 2.0, Facelets has
			 been promoted by the JSF expert group to be the default view declaration language. JSP has been deprecated 
			 as a legacy fall back <sup id="cite_ref-1" class="reference"><a href="#cite_note-1"><span>[</span>2<span>]
			 </span></a></sup> <sup id="cite_ref-2" class="reference"><a href="#cite_note-2"><span>[</span>3<span>]
			 </span></a></sup>.</p>
		</ui:define>
	</ui:composition>
</body> 
</html>